---
title: Utilities class
---

Provides methods for retrieving the directory in which the libimobiledevice library and tools are located.

```csharp
public static class Utilities
```

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| static [GetMobileDeviceDotNetDirectory](Utilities/GetMobileDeviceDotNetDirectory.md)() | Gets the directory in which the libimobiledevice library and tools are located. |
| static [GetProxyPath](Utilities/GetProxyPath.md)() | Gets the full path of the `iproxy.exe` executable. |
| static [GetUsbMuxdPath](Utilities/GetUsbMuxdPath.md)() | Gets the full path of the `usbmuxd.exe` executable. |

## Remarks

To run the and tools, such as `iproxy`, we need to know where they are located.

The libimobiledevice library and tools are delivered via the `imobiledevice-net` NuGet packages on Windows and macOS, and, as a special case, Ubuntu 16.04. On other Linux distributions, you can use the Quamotion PPA at https://launchpad.net/~quamotion/+archive/ubuntu/ppa, or compile from source.

When running in development mode, or via `dotnet run`, .NET Core does not copy the contents of the NuGet packages to the output directory, but references them instead. In most cases, this is transparent - assemblies, managed and native, are loaded via .NET anyway, so as long as .NET knows where they are, we are good.

For executables, that's a different story. We can't determine the path ourselves, because we don't know, say, the version number, nor is there an API in CoreCLR we can use to query the location.

So we take a detour. The NuGet packages ship with a 'lighthouse' library which contains a `get_moduleFileName` function, which returns the location of the library. We can call `get_moduleFileName` from managed code, and determine the directory from there.

Although the same function exists on Windows, Linux and OS X, there are some slight differences. For example, the Windows function uses Unicode, whereas the Unix ones use UTF-8.

## See Also

* namespace [iMobileDevice](../iMobileDevice-net.md)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for iMobileDevice-net.dll -->
